dr. Jeff Steinberg was involved in
creating the world's first test-tube
baby back in 1978 at his clinic in LA
he's still helping people to conceive
there are these little pictures of
test-tube babies they sure are they sure
are some of thousands
but nowadays he's helping couples create
their very own designer babies his
clinic routinely screens embryos for
genetic diseases and more
controversially it was the first in the
world to offer people the choice of
cosmetic traits
selecting offspring like this could
change the course of our evolution
and it all starts with something that
still utterly amazes me the very
beginnings of human life a living embryo
[Music]
so we'll come over here and this will
give us a great chance to actually watch
the biopsy of the embryo so this is when
you take the cell to look at the genetic
yeah so to do that we've got to separate
the one cell from the other eight cells
inside the embryo and you can do that
you can you can take a sin away and the
innovation still carry on developing
normally totally normally it's like it
never happened so you can see the
multiple cells on the embryo
so the maybe two the pool of water about
eight cells uh-huh we've applied the
suction pipette to it so that'll hold it
in place for us and now we're gonna
Pierce the zona pellucida the outer
shell yeah protects the embryos and
we're actually going to prepare to go in
and remove one of these cells so that we
can analyze it genetically just a moment
here boom there that's out and you can
see the remainder of the embryos not
fazed a bit by that so then you're able
to see you look at the genes contained
to these nodes there which are identical
to the others and look at the look at
the genes that you've got there and
screen it exactly right by screening a
cell from each embryo dr. Steinberg can
work out which embryos are free from
genetic diseases but he can also screen
the embryo for other traits so you know
say picking up the sex of the atmosphere
so you actually allowing people to
choose whether they have well again
anyone can choose here yep they can
choose a boy choose a girl and we've
done this close to 9,000 times now it
just seems safe achillea such an odd
thing to do is be able to determine the
sex of your baby but again I mean if a
couple has five girls they're gonna walk
in and say we want a boy okay so what
about other traits that you know not the
sex of the embryo not things which I you
know potentially gain cause of disease
but I mean other things like I don't
know maybe I color or hair color we
actually isolated the genes that allow
us to choose eye color and hair color in
the Scandinavian
all right we announced it and we started
hearing from people that were interested
in this but we also heard from a lot of
people on the outside including the
Catholic Church that had some big
problems with it and they said no not at
this point
so we retracted it even though we can
but we're not doing so the technology is
available right now to basically have a
designer baby where you choose the
cheese's X cheesy eye color cheese the
hair color choose how intelligent they
are in our lifetimes I think we will see
tremendous advances made in determining
where intelligence comes from
identifying the genes that are
associated with intelligence and perhaps
maybe not being able to guarantee an
intelligent person but certainly
guarantee that we will contain the
chromosomes that lead to the ability to
develop better intelligence do you think
this is a good idea I'm not sure if it's
a good idea and that's why we're not
forcefully pursuing it right now and
we're going to need help from the
outside world we need help from the
emphasis we need help obviously from the
geneticists and we need help from
society
you